Night, backstory/general:
Ni Te goes by Night. It’s easier. She grew up in Luzabelle Town in Emporia and still lives there. She has an apartment by herself. Her parents were arrested on chumped-up charges seven years ago, since then she’s been on her own. She made her way by playing whatever Kill House games she could get in to, using money she found around her parent’s house to pay entry fees. That money ran out fast, and she had to turn to Ruby Wheelchair, a small-time mobster. It didn’t take long until Ruby realized Night’s potential—she won because she could get into people’s heads and read them. She was always good at knowing how people ticked, good at talking and squeezing information out of them. Everyone seemed to like her. So Ruby had Night start fixing games. She knew how to cheat the system and guarantee a big-money target went down hard, and Ruby’s goons could bet on exact scores and rake in bits by the hundreds. It worked great for a few years, but Night bit off more than she could chew. She entered into a second string pro house—high stakes, high bets, big names. It was going to be her biggest fix yet—and Ruby had 7,500 bits riding on the final round.

It went perfectly, until the cheater got cheated. Night slipped up, thought she knew the other player’s tactics but she didn’t. The fixer got fixed, and Ruby lost it all. That was five years ago now. Since that game, Ruby’s owned Night. She belonged to him, doing anything he told her to. Usually it was small-time stuff, petty theft or forgery, but he never lets Night forget about her debt. Interest adds up, he says. That 7,500 turned into 40,336 bits. A life sentence. She still doesn’t know who the other player was that saw through her fix.
Fuck this city.
---------------------

12.12, seven years ago

Ni waited at the door until midnight.

---------------------

22.01, last year

Sergio Yontez leaned against the cold metal bar and looked up at the projection in front of him. He took a sip of his whiskey and smiled. He could see it now: the new couch in his apartment, a fancy dinner out with Ellie, or maybe he'd save it for a new grav bike. Ha! What did it matter? He was going home sixty-two bits heavier, and he was loving every second of the game in front of him.

It was going so smoothly: dev1ce was riding clean at 15 hits and he'd only taken one so far. His eyes flashed back and forth following the avatar in the projection.

Dev1ce was a huge player, half-orc with more brawns than three regular men put together. He was dodging shots left and right and playing to his regular beat. Careful shot. Duck and cover. Roll down and flip to the wall. Shoot while the gonk in front of him was looking down. Sergio had watched him play before, and tonight he was on the top of his game.

Dev1ce flatlined another player. It was just him and BenL0v now. Perfect. BenL0v was a good player, sure, but his forte was in TDM, not here. It was basically settled--Sergio's bet would pull big. He closed his eyes and smelled the victory.

When he opened them, he coughed up his whiskey. Dev1ce had just taken eight hits. Nine. Ten. No. No. NO.
-----
Night logged off and spun in her desk chair, laughing. Dev1ce was easy. It only took a few games to understand him, and a few more to be better at being him than he was. He gets confident, and thats when he slips up. He would make it to the final two, then get pummeled by someone smarter than him. That's why Night played around BenL0v. He's a shit player, honestly, but he's smarter than dev1ce. Night had taken out any other gonk gunning for BenL0v during the game so that he'd be left to face dev1ce in the final showdown. Throw in a few overconfident spits, a specific twitch in his left pointer finger, a special brutality only found in killers and voila, a perfectly fixed House.

Suckers.
----------------------

Night's ramblings:

I’m probably gunna get shot this year. Or next. Or the one after that. It’s all the same. What’s a life worth in this city?
You work behind your desk for, what, 10 years before you walk to the taxi and some chump puts a gun to your head. Boom. No one will remember you. And why should they? They’ll go out on the street and hire the first person they see. We’re like the light bulbs that you have to replace every few years.
People are quick and easy and cheap.

All this is basically just saying that I’m justified to wash my fuckin’ brain with narcotics. If I can only count on living one day to the next, then I might as well piss 70% MDMA half the time.

Did I know exactly what it meant to go 7,500 in the hole with Ruby when it happened? Yeah. I knew. My life wasn’t my own anymore. I do what Ruby says or that “one year” becomes significantly shorter. But that’s fine. I was counting on that anyway.

One might assume from all this that I’m an unhappy or pessimistic person. Personally, I don’t believe this to be so. I take drugs to make the most of the time that I have—I’m a realist. Believe me, I’ll do everything I can to make sure that the “next year” never comes along, but I might as well have as much fun as I can while I’m here. Make good friends. Curse, drink, and make sure that “next year” is always just that.

So my philosophy is this:
I’ve got nothing to lose.
If I choose you to be my friend, then you bet you’re ass that I’ll put it all on the line for you.
If I don’t choose you to be my friend, then you bet you’re ass that I don’t give a shit about what happens to you. I don’t got enough time to worry about your sorry ass.

----------------------

Night, Out-of-Character

Night is, in general, a positive, upbeat girl. She’s rambunctious and always willing to jump headfirst into danger—as long as she thinks she has the upper hand.

When she’s on Zip, her emotions are in overdrive. Her anger is red hot, her happiness is euphoric. This can make for some pretty wild twists and turns. Fear is overpowering. Sadness is devastating. Devotion is blinding.

Night values her relationships, and she tries to build them with as many people as possible. This way, she’ll feel something no matter what—if it’s love, great. If it’s pain, great. Any emotion is good, even the shame of killing someone or cheating. That’s Night’s way through life. Feel everything, all the time. She’d get burned out if it wasn’t for the Zip.

Night loves adventure and challenge, loves passion and excitement—but she’s bound by her debt to Ruby and by her addiction to Zip. She’s a free and chaotic soul trapped under lock and key by unshakable reliance. She had given up on being free, but with Ruby’s new job it might be possible again. So she’ll try.

DnD classic alignment: True Neutral
