Mature Akshani - 38,948 BBT

SUBSISTENCE: agrarian. The Akshani farm the coastal valleys of the rivers flowing east from the Wesaxum, and the swampy lands of east Samisah.
GOVERNANCE: most cities are ruled by a priest-king figure presided over by the larger body of a city's Arihan.
RELIGION: centralized religion dominated by Evil Gods and protectorate Nkatha angels. Sacrifice, spiritual war, serpents, secrets/shadows, and metallurgy are focuses of the religion. Supplication is defensive (offerings and rituals keep Evil Gods at bay or entreat Nkatha to shield households, villages, or cities). Daily life is filled with ritualized superstition, small every-day acts that would hide mortal actions from the detection of the Evil Deities and their demons.

On the Arihan:  In Akshani tradition, transcended savanath were to take on the roles of physical protectors, taking up weapons and armor and doing battle with the monsters of the Evil Gods. It was the responsibility of the yet living savanath to rule and do the lesser tasks of administration and temple-keeping. Living savanath also generally made up the priestly class of Akshah, carrying out the protectorate rites and rituals. The savanath were also intimitely tied to mystical metallurgy.

On Akshani supplication: The Evil Deities are never petitioned for personal reasons. Ancestral Narazi cults might supplicate a deity to cure a disease or curse an enemy, but the Evil Gods of Akshah are malevolent to their worshippers. Even the later Nkatha do not carry out personal supplications. Rituals supplicate Nkatha or their Autochthonous servants to protect households, villages, and cities.

Things previously solved with supplication become the responsibilities of mortals: healing and medicine being the most influencial. Healing, though still heavily influenced by ancestral mystic cures, became a mortal profession. This, alongwith the Akshani importance of scribery, led to the Akshani becoming the most academic of the ancient peoples of Nomenes.

The Uruvand region delivered tin, copper, iron, mercury, and other minerals into Akshah (and eventually Bigun). The abundance of these materials made them less valuable economically and more common throughout Akshah, unlike the tin-starved Nos Mori. Societal stratification, which previously was built on access to commodities like bronze and the subsequent access to efficient tools (such as the plow), shifted. Akshani society held the large savanath class on top as the priestly class and primary warrior class. One step below the savanath were smiths, who would be either savanath or mortal, and held status almost equal to priests. Below them, mortal members of society made up the merchants, artisans, and farmers. These all, at this early time, were considered equal. The authority of the savanath to rule was their practical immortality alone, and their role as protectors of society. This is what stratified early Akshah, rather than wealth.

Metallurgy in early Akshah was mystical and highly respected. Smiths made the weapons that Arihan used to defend Akshah, and thus their role was just as important as the priests that carried out the rites of societal protection. Metallurgy was heavily developed from the earliest days of Akshah.

The story of Akshani life: The Evil Gods wish to destroy mortals, but the priests, Arihan, and other savanath stand to defend all Akshah from demons. Mortals carry out rites to remain hidden, and offer sacrifices to the savanath to fuel their proteectors and to pass into the guarded afterlife of the Akshani, which is within all Arihan paladins. If you are not consumed by an Arihan, then your soul may be devoured instead by the Evil Gods and their demons.

----
Middle Akshani - 36,750 BBT

Changes:
RELIGION:
Akshani mystic metallurgy was elevated. Smiths were considered higher than common priests, and the traditions and methods of crimson bronze metallurgy were highly prized. mortal savanath, before becoming Arihan, would often apprentice as smiths and forge their own weapons. The master smiths would be elder Arihan or dedicated smith savanath. The smiths of Uruvand were the most legendary. Their secret society was a culture unto itself, small societies of Ghahaka-Akshani hybrids. Supplication became an important part of Akshani smithing. Priest-smiths would supplicate to Nkatha to release the inner-power of the smith, allowing the spirit of the smith to guide their hammer. This is, in its most rudimentary form, a manifestation of a practice that would evolve into proto-spellcasting. The smiths would not ask the Nkatha to use their divine power; instead they would supplicate for the Nkatha to watch over and guide the power of the smiths themselves. This practice never actually released the magic of the smiths, but it did set up the framework for later Akshani magic.

After the capture of Uruvand by Bigun, the smiths hid themselves away and Uruvand became a myth.

MAGIC:
The proto-spellcasting of the Middle-Akshani was generally limited to fate-weaving, large-scale protective aura rituals.

ECONOMY:
Stratificaiton grew within the mortal classes of merchant, artisan, and farmer. Merchants grew wealthy from an increasingly complex network of trade throughout Akshah. After the conquest of Uruvand, tin became a much more valuable commodity. This grew the mercantile class, and stratification of the mortal classes were built on metal trade.


---
Later Akshani - 
