This is really the only option, however it still gives you a lot of options:

Random islands or other things to "investigate". You could put almost anything on them. Could be peaceful or hostile groups on them, completely abandoned, ancient ruins protected by a magic item/curse.

Random sea monsters/encounters/combat.

Other encounters like other ships. These could be hostile, trade, or offer services. If it is a popular wate route maybe have a large ship with a market, maybe a ship that is a floating blacksmith shop or magic shop that wants to be in "international waters" for various reasons. Floating restaurant with awesome food.

Ship in a bottle scenarios. These are things that happen on the ship unrelated to outside influence. These could be the crew planning a mutiny and trying to get the players on their side. Unexpected damage to the ship and needs to be repairs. Maybe some of the cargo caused an issue such as crates full of snakes broke open in rough water. Mystery like the ship has hidden runes or other writing on it, the captain found the ship adrift and doesnt know its history. Conflict between crew, maybe captain dies in an encounter and the players have to "sponsor" the replacement and take sides.

Weather and natural phenomenon. Whirlpools, storms, massive fog/obscuring vision, unexpectedly long nights or days depending on where they are sailing. Days of no sunset could cause issues to the crew, maybe some exhausting mechanics same as days of no light. Could also be fun to mess with magical items that reset on "dawn" if you don't have a "dawn".

Downtime activities! Make a thorough and long list of different downtime activities so the players still feel like they are making personal progress. I prefer the book method. Give books to read for downtime that give the players advantage on things after they read them. You could even give them books and stories related to the region so it may give them "knowledge" about legends in the area that make it easier to sneak those things into the narrative and give a reason why a player will know about it.

I know it is just island hopping and encounters but when you break up all the options you can be pretty varied. Its important to see what your players want to do as well. Do they want to island hop and investigate or do they just want to get to the destination? Also realize they will almost always approach a situation fully rested and ready so you can go big with situations.



Pirate options:
Traditional Pirate age: set in LFC or after the fall of LFC
    - benefits:
        experience wide diversity of regions, as LFC allows portal travel to different seas
        traditional earthly color
        don't have to built a ton
    - downsides:
        difficult to have planar sailing (unless I give them the Silver ship)
Space Pirate age: set in Final Asfalon
    - benefits:
        experience a wide diversity of planar regions
        Unique, Guardians x Treasure Planet feel
    - downsides:
        difficult to have traditional pirate feel

- if traditional pirate style, easier to justify a hex crawl
- if traditional pirate style, easier to get the bright vibes (GG is still bright, but its a little weird)


