Era of the "Blood Sun"

A catastrophic eruptive event is triggered around 29,600 BBT by Alaafia, Hehtan, or the Evil Gods of Akshah.

The Uruvand hotspot is a large, active hotspot beneath west-central Nomenes, just to the west of the inland sea, Samisah. Prior to 30,000 BBT, the hotspot was regularly producing slow, persistant volcanism throughout the region in the form of small lava pools and periodic basalt flows. Early in its geologic history, the hotspot caused the rising of the northwestern mountain belt and the rifting that created the Samisah. Through tectonic migration, the hotspot now sits under the highlands of central western Nomenes. Early effects of the hostpot were rising epithermal fluids that created the thick cinnabar strata and large tin deposits that characterize the region in the present day. Over time, rock on top of the cinnabar strata was weathered away and the cinnabar became subaerial. The hotspot increased in severity, and active volcanism marked the beginning of the laying of the Uruvand traps. With the initiation of active volcanism, localities of cinnabar were vaporized to produce local plumes of mercury gas and sulfur dioxide. The gases led to a unique regional weather event characterized by mercurial sulfur dioxide hazes forming over the nearby Samisah. High concentrations of sulfur dioxide also produced persistant acid rain that was detrimental to livestock and people. Eventually, divine intervention through rituals allowed mercury injestion to reduce the severity of the health effects of these weather patterns. The errosion of the cinnabar rich landscape and towering cinnabar crystals led to the red-tinged desert as well as the red-tinged plant and animal life of the region.

The Heavenly Gate War ended with the triggered eruption of the Uruvand supervolcano, which led to the accelerated eruption of the Uruvand Traps that spanned 30000 - 25000 BBT, and slowed from 25000 - 15000 BBT.
The Uruvand hotspot is naturally sulfur-rich. The heating of mercury sulfide creates mercury vapor and sulfur dioxide. The eruption was a VEI 8 event that introduced an incredible amount of sulfur dioxide into the stratosphere to cool the planet an average of 15 C for a decade. The eruption also sent vast amounts of mercury vapor into the atmosphere, resulting in contamination of the global water supply.

The initial acceleration of the Uruvand Traps was a massive event, as the VEI 8 eruption of the Uruvand Hotspot opened a gaping crater that spread to create the flood basalt hellscape of the region from 30,000 - present (severely receding from 25000 - 15000 BBT). For the first 5000 years, the eruption of the flood basalts of these Middle Uruvand Traps released consistant sulfur dioxide into the stratosphere through kilometer-high fire plumes to cool the planet an additional 8 C.

23 C in first decade, 8 C after. Global avg for 30000 - 15000: ~6 C rather than 14C.

The settling of sulfur dioxide caused the sun to appear blood red for this period, growing increasing more regular over time. Global sulfuric acid rain killed plants, livestock, and people. The initial decade of cold reduced average temperatures to 16 F. The absolutely frigid temperatures destroyed crops and killed animals and people. Agricultural and horticultural cultures experienced global decade-long famines that destabilized societal structures. Approx. 10% global population mortality in this single decade. The decade is also marked with incredibly acidic sulfuric rain, which further kills crops and poisons groundwater systems with lasting damage to people and nature. This also jeopardizes nomadic people. The sulfuric rain is worst during this first decade, with ph ~1.5 - 2. The climatic kick recedes, though the continuing eruption of the Uruvand flood basalts keeps temperatures ~8 C lower than average, instigating a deep glacial period. Acid rain continues, and persistent temperature lows change climate. Approx. 60% of the global population dies in the first 5000 years from natural causes: famine, sulfuric choking, volcanic winters, etc. Societal collapse causes additional death. Large scale agriculture is difficult or impossible for hundreds of years, and complex society collapses globally.

Sun is red for millennia, collapse is accompanied by mercurial hallucinations, maddening, poisoning, etc.

The Uruvand caldera is huge; 60x60km ish. The flood basalt eruptive region is far larger though, covering 700,000 sq km of west-central Nomenes, larger than the Dekkan traps but far shorter lived. The fast moving flood basalts covered an area of approx 1.5Mm within a matter of *weeks*, though accumulation took longer. The geography of Uruvand was completely changed. Only outskirts of the dry cinnabar-dominated crystal forests remain, with the vast majority being replaced with vast magma rivers. A volcanic hellscape. From long fissures through the earth spew fire columns kilometers high. A perpetual darkness surrounds the Uruvand Traps.

Describe the Uruvand Traps:

Looking from the high slopes of the Wesaxum east over the Uruvand Traps is a sight as if looking into the fiery heart of the world. The valley hills have been coated in a dark, tough basalt. Beyond them, the sky is set alight with kilometer high fiery plumes erupting from grand fissures in the crust. Any farther is obscured by the thick clouds of ash and sulfur and mercury. The floors of the descending valleys are filled with bubbling pools of bright red magma and yellow-green sulfur. Lava seeps from the walls, and molten sulfur spews like puss from lava tubes into the valleys. Mercury gas is thin here, as the clouds puff from the lava tubes and roll down into the central Traps. Beyond the valleys is the first of the fissures, a massive sea of lava with a fountain of fire constantly erupting from within. The caldera glows complicated colors of red and yellow and flourescent blue from the burning sulfur. A silvery sheen sits in the air; mercurial vapor that chokes and crazes. The sea of lava flows down to the north and south in rivers where the deep-cut canyons of Uruvand once sat. Cinnabar crystal trees perch atop the highest of the old canyon walls, though most others have been burried or leveld by the lava. Beyond the first walls of fire sits the heart of the Traps, the massive caldera-sea of lava constantly churning and erupting. Huge clouds of ash float into the sky from the smokey caldera, and in its center sits a single raised volcanic isle. Around the rims one can look north or south and see the vast flows of lava, gradually thinning towards the lowlands. The prevailing wind is eastward, leaving the north and south with glimpses of distant sun over the calamity. These foothills to the north and south are reminiscent of the valleys to the west.

Further east is another wall of fire, additional fissures that broke out from the caldera towards the eastern canyons. The topography drops to the west, and much of the lava produced from these fissures flows into the grand and endless hellscape beyond. The grand hell is a dismal place suffused with mercury clouds and sulfuric acid rain. Cinnabar canyon ridges stick up from flood paths, and from them one could perch and look distantly east to the sea. The wastes of lava flows, sulfur mounds, and puddles of mercury continues to the edges of the canyon system where the mouth of the traps opens towards the sea. Vast plains of hardened basalt reach like flat fingers towards the water, slowly piling higher and higher.
