Let's think of a back-and-forth war structure for the timeline of the Lineament conflict.

Actors:
ARTIFEX:
Good
Evil
Law
Chaos
Creation
Knowledge
Reason
Ambition
Fear - revived for Asfalon
Growth -
Shadow - helping Creativity
Creativity - in hiding

Asfalon
Victory
Folly - broken, wandering Selora Mezh
Passion - captured
Revelation - captured
Decay - tethering Growth
Grace - captured
Mystery
Inhumanity

TIE. 1. Growth puts Ehlu into a perpetual coma with the aid of Creativity and Shadow. Decay cements Growth's tether.
ARTIFEX. 2. Power kills Ehlu, the last Neosant. The Trium Planes are formed and the magic of Asfalon' Lineaments is bottlenecked. Passion manifests as the fury of Asfalon, transforming into the unending Usada.
TIE. 3. The Shards of Power settle into a planning phase after Ehlu's death. Creativity and Shadow remain with Growth during this time, though Creativity helps plan. Chaos is the messenger. They use their servants, Guire and Selor, to set up a base for Knowledge in The Eye of Ehlu. The Shards of Power create the Heart of Selor, Parmasinta.
4. Inhumanity and Mystery commune with Bash in Andolem; they take him as a servant. Bash is their spy into Selor. He wants to destroy all magic, though the Lineaments use him as a tool, never truly wanting him to attain his goals.

-State here; Selor is an eye for both sides of the fight allowing them to more easily reach and manipulate servants. Parmasinta is a combination of Artifex' essentia, making it a distilled piece of reality-bending power. Lineaments, though, cannot wield essentia--only mortals. Essentia hold a profane power to Lineaments; if a Lineament tries to use the power of planar essentia, the spacetime of a Lineament's demiplane will begin to unravel and they will be destroyed.

(Waith Akh vs Astar + Waith Rhun war, consequence of the Lineament's quest for the essentia. Mystery -> Bash -> Raededir gets cords of Arangil and Taregil and puts them in artifacts for storage for Asfalon.)

ARTIFEX. 5. During the Waith Akh vs Astar war, the Gwenyn use Taregil to capture Passion and trap him in the crystal in the ground. Vanemer uses Arangil to connect the Planar Neighborhood! This changes the landscape of the multiverse forever. Once again, mortals of Asfalon have demonstrated their power.

Asfalon 6. Apythia further bottlenecks magical energy for mortals--this affects how much the Lineaments of Artifex can find the mortal tethers useful; it weakens Artifex. As this act was happening, it drew out Creativity from hiding to stop the ritual. While Creativity stopped the ritual from being totally completed, the presence of Inhumanity kept most of it going. Growth falls to Decay, and Victory finds Fear within Growth's forest, forcing a tether and reviving Fear into Asfalon. Reason, Creativity, and Ambition retreat under Shadow's veil.

-------------------
Artifex 16 : Asfalon 16. Growth stagnates Ehlu. Decay tethers Growth.

(73k) (LOUD)
Artifex 27 CRIT : Asfalon 18. Power kills Ehlu, the last Neosant. Passion creates the Usada.

-The Shards of Power go into hiding. Seeking of the Essentia begins.

(55k) (silent)
+Artifex 30 : Asfalon 24. The Shards of Power create the Imasteri, allowing Selor to transcend the Trium Planes.

(55k) (LOUD)
+Artifex 19 : Asfalon 16. The Gwenyn, servants of Artifex, capture Passion within the crust of the world.

(52k)  (silent)
Artifex 16 : Asfalon 17. Revelation lures Knowledge and forces a tether upon him. Knowledge is tethered to the Risilus.

(51k)
+Artifex 21 : Asfalon 13. A conflict! The mind of Folly is broken by Ambition wielding Parmasinta.

(45.5k) (LOUD)
+Artifex 15 : Asfalon 9. Knowledge breaks from Revelation's tether and goes into hiding. Revelation is killed.

(24k) (LOUD)
Artifex 20 : Asfalon 25. Inhumanity takes the Parmasinta and gives it to Victory. Asfalon gains advantage.

~this time, mortals become an influence!

(17k)
+Artifex 17 : Asfalon 12. Revelation, revived, is captured.
    -Revelation becomes an artifact!

(16k)
+Artifex 18 : Asfalon 11. Decay is thrown off, Growth is freed. Decay is killed with the aid of mortals.
    -Austera greens! Growth dominates. Cult of Decay rises in Austera.

(15k)
+Artifex 24 : Asfalon 23. Grace is captured and studied by Creation. Grace is corrupted into Kalma.
    (xk)
    Artifex 13 : Asfalon 20. Kalma is banished by Asfalon.

(10k)
+Artifex 30 : Asfalon 21. Inhumanity is captured, held within a person.

-Cult of Decay rises to a climax.
(6k)
+Artifex 26 : Asfalon 23. Decay, revived, is captured by heroes.

THE BUILDUP TO THE BURNED TIMES BEGINS...
(2k)
Artifex 21 : Asfalon 21. Inhumanity is freed from its mortal prison.
(2k)
Artifex 16 : Asfalon 19. Decay is freed.

(1k)
+Artifex 18 : Asfalon 8. Seeing the freedom of the other Lineaments of Asfalon, Artifex turns to mortals. Artifex begins to willingly tether and gather heroes, as well as turning to Lesser Auhrons and Guire.

(1k)
+Artifex 16 : Asfalon 15. In a quick conflict, Mystery is captured and killed.
    -The cult of Mystery rises.

(1k)
Artifex 18 : Asfalon 22. Fear and Knowledge are forcefully tethered, Revelation is freed.

(1k)
Artifex 12 : Asfalon 22. The cult of Mystery works effectively for Asfalon. They are the main "boots on the ground" in preparation for the upcoming conflict. Ambition is captured into an artifact used to create a powerful hero for Asfalon.

(0k)
Artifex 11 : Asfalon CRIT. FEAR IS REVIVED FOR Asfalon. THE BURNED TIMES BEGIN.

--------------------------------------------
THE BURNED TIMES. LINEAMENT WAR PICKS UP.
Vanya Tarimel takes the Imasteri from Victory.
--------------------------------------------

Actors:
ARTIFEX:
Good
Evil
Law
Chaos
Creation
Knowledge - tethered
Reason
Ambition
Growth -
Shadow -
Creativity -
Kalma - captured

Asfalon
Victory
Folly - broken
Passion - captured
Revelation - 
Decay - 
Mystery -
Inhumanity
Fear

Inhumanity, Fear, Mystery, Decay, Revelation are all killed\captured. Asfalon is on the brink of destruction.
Victory goes into hiding.
Cults of killed Lineaments rise.

-New "Lineaments" are created to hunt down Victory.

What needs to happen:
Fairfox is created
Adventure is created

Kalma returns to draw out Victory--it succeeds.
Victory fights against Kalma along with some heroes, Shadow fights for Kalma
Heroes fight against Kalma.

Victory escapes the trap. Adventure is sent to track him.

Passion is freed through the mining of crystal? Passion is devoured through the mining of crystal?

Artifex 14 : Asfalon 8.
