---
The RGC are a violent culture that emerged from the aftermath of a bloody collapse. Massacres, wars, and famine ripped through the south of Nomenes and brought out the grittiest parts of the Zarrakaya people. The multifaced god-spirit Hemangh remained, though his strongest faces were those of war. The RGC cities were intimitely connected through Hemangh, and gate-space travel was still possible. Hemangh took on aspects of the violent world, however, and transit was dangerous. The RGC were tightly knit with the Gairians, Sor'haya, and the southern Later Thandairians (those of Velkata). They were farmers, traders, warriors, and pious hermits. A diverse and rich people unlike any others on the continent.

The bustling cities 
---

35,500 BBT--End of Zarrakaya dark ages, start of RGC. Uramuhj, Thupushk, and Dausa are the major winners that rise from the ashes. Start of Jananghu.
    Population 70e6 over whole region; density around 25/sq mile. Doesn't take long to re-saturate into a violent warlike state.
    
    What is the story of the Relic Gate Cultures? These are a new people entering into their mythical age. They live on ancient mounds with portals at their center to a fantastical god-plane that connects them. They are pastoralists and farmers ruled by violent warlords supported by theological fetishists. Entering into a self-supported Bronze Age, cities grow as fiecely independant units endlessly locked together by the mesh of Hemangh.
        Clerical persuits rose in imporance alongside warriorship. Hemangh became a god not only to be worshipped but to be understood and interfaced with.
    The RGC people are separated into three regions, though all are connected through Hemangh:
    Southern Nomenes: Wide, cool forest-steppe extending from the hills of southern Wesaxia, over the ridgeline forests of northern Vinaltakha, to the foothills of the mighty Gairians. Plagued by raids from the Nizurrak, this region boasts the most ancient mound sites. Cities in the west (notably Kanana) are tightly connected with the Nos Mori sphere, which they trade east. The Vinaltakh is a lush, fertile land, the breadbasket of this region. Dausa, Aramadiz, and Urabdan dominate.
    Azaherem and the Nomenes-Austera sea: The cloistered bay of Azaherem and the islands of Xaraktaru and Ushastadel. Ushastadel is the bridge between Nomenes and Austera, a pit-stop for pilgrims and merchants crossing the sea. It is a powerful bastion

35,263 BBT--Dausa is sacked by Nizurrak, starting power wars throughout central-south RGC region.

***35,020 BBT--Unique writing system developed in Uramuhj.

35,000 BBT--Aramadiz and Urabdan split the pwoer of Dausa.

34,800 BBT--Tazetaka rises in Aazaherem.

34,482 BBT--Thupushk fractures. Hairish, Masyasha, and Old Thupushk remain.

34,286 BBT--Kanana, under rule of Manitesh, is powerhouse of the west.

34,187 BBT--Udakaxsha rises south of Tazetaka and east of the Vinaltakh sea.

34,003 BBT--Aramadiz and Urabdan are unified by Nizurrak Gava dynasty.

34,000 BBT--Maturation of Shanurva nomads north of Uramuhj and Ravazah.

34,000 BBT--Lohashath Kingdoms form across Straight of Ravazah.

33,796 BBT--Udakaxsha is conquered by the growing power of Tazetaka.

33,641 BBT--Masyashan League encompasses Masyasha and Old Thupushk as a major power on Ushastadel.

****************************************************************
******35,500 - 33,500 : Early RGC warring states period. Transition next into period of further maturity and development as some states consolidate power.
****************************************************************

-The cultural state of the RGC is shifting.
Religious: As the theological fetishism of the RGC people matured, the clerical elite class became saturated and founded in new traditions. Social mobility slowed to a crawl as this new class was closed. Clerical positions became hereditary and dynastic, structured in region-specific monastic groups called Orders. The Orders grew in social and political importance as the necessity of their usage for transitting Hemangh grew. They also became more secretive, keeping their power and knowledge close.
Political: the increasing consolidation of power makes some more and more powerful, growing the height of the aristocratic warlords to new ranks. The most powerful cities and states are ruled by militaristic queens increasingly reliant on the clerical Orders.
Social: with cities growing larger and more developed, social life grows more complex. New social customs and movements appear to fit the growth of the Orders and the Queens. Craft specialization grows, encouraging innovation like never before. Trade and interactions beyond the RGC borders increases, from Zarrakaya-derivative cultures in Austera to the Nizurrak, Gairians, and Shaasakids. New ideas from these cultures seep into RGC society, slowly driving the engines of social change.

33,300 BBT--Manitesh is killed, Kanana spirals into succession wars. Anarchic Cities of Manitesh exist in the west.

33,220 BBT - Competition in the Lohashath kingdoms pushes religious and architectural innovation: advanced calendar system, mathematics + engineering, post and lintel architecture for megalithic temples, advanced religious art

Modern calendar 33220
Early mathematics 33220
Ocean Sailing 33220
Post and Lintel construction 33220
Early currency 33220

33,200 BBT--Rise of new cities in the Mediterranean river valeys of the eastern Ravazah; generally called the Gozam, "Land of the Rivers".

33,150 BBT - Ironworking begins in Dausa, Urabdan, and Aramadiz. Though at this point the spread is slow, the Gates allow for an eventual exponentially swift spread of iron throughout all of RGC territory.

33,086 BBT--Fall of Nizurrak Gava dynasty in Aramadiz + Urabdan. The dynasty was growing weak and usurpers were frequent. In this year the ruling house was slaughtered in Aramadiz, and both cities won their independance. Aramadiz was taken under the rule of a new, local dynasty: the dynasty of Candramuk (Moon-face of God). Urabdan fell into the hands of the weak Zalawazara (Great Children of God) dynasty.

33,026 BBT--Status quo change in the Lohashath kingdoms. Uramuhj conquers the kingdoms. The growing power of Uramuhj draws in mercantilism from the east and west, and new cities appear along the road to Gozam, the land called Chuam (Land of Hills). With Uramuhj in control of the Straight's tin, the city's influence, power, and wealth skyrocket. This is the golden age of middle Uramuhj.

32,944 BBT--Tazetaka falls to a Gairian dynasty. Udakaxsha holds the old royal family of Tazetaka and increases dealings with Ushastadel kingdoms. In their war, the Gairians pillaged much of the countryside and forced many refugees to flee the hinterland of Tazetaka. Some groups of these refugees, rather than fleeing south, found the north to be more hospitable. This is the first major presence of a post-Zarrakayan cultural presence in East-Central Nomenes, near the cities of the Derveman, the Femor cities and Shikul, Gogranj and the Akobian Empire to the north. The earliest encroachments of these refugees into the south of the Gairian plateau met few other astar. However, as time passed, the outskirts of the northern villages and the RGC people brushed up against each other. They were generally friendly, trading, communicating, and mixing as poor village folk.

-----------32,818 BBT--The RGC cities of the eastern Razavah Straights panic amongst themselves with the conquest of the powerful Lohashath kingdoms. With Uramuhj as the undisputed power of the west, they stand undefended. The cities form two small petty kingdoms, Surakotah (the Safe Harbor) and Karashah (city of the mountain).

32,750 BBT - Steel is commonly used throughout RGC culture. Over the last 300 years, the warring cities of RGC have been politically, socially, and religiously evolving due to the spread and adoption of ironworking.

32,740 BBT--Oreus pulses with an incredible amount of magic and a magical storm begins around the mouth of the Razavah. Earthquakes rock the landscape. Although the divine continuance protects much of Uramuhj, the sudden shock crumbles the fringes of the kingdom, and the sustained magical storm off the coast disrupts trade. Uramuhj sinks into an enconomic depression and its social order begins to collapse. The storm lasts a decade. Though Uramuhj itself collapses, the RGC civilization narrowly escapes total system collapse due to its gateway infrastructure, allowing movement and communication without the necessity of sea travel. As Uramuhj collapses, it loses its iron grasp on the Lohashath Kingdoms of the Straights, which violently rebel. Uramuhj is mostly abandoned, and its hinterland fractures into rump city states and minor kingdoms. The collapse of Uramuhj scatters the influencial and famous clerics of the city across the RGC network as the crisis ensues, rippling through all of the RGC. The clerics, knowledgeable in much of Hemangh, bring valuable religious knowledge to the wider kingdoms. This knowledge is useful for crossing Hemangh more safely, both fostering connections and enticing more ambitious assaults.
    The loss of Uramuhj also strikes the heart of Hemanghism. Oreus, near to Uramuhj, is believed to be the heart of Hemangh. With the storm and the collapse of the ancient relic city, a spiritual anxiety rises.

32,668 BBT--The Hairish dynasty in Shakagama is exiled, the territory is folded into the mighty Masyashan League. The continued wars of the Masyashan League cause significant strain on the cities due to the collapse of Uramuhj trade and prosperity. Conquest ceases and internal tensions climb.

-----------32,600 BBT--The smaller and more agricultural states of the region fare better, as they are less reliant on trade and less populous.

Eridu at largest point 32740
Early Sumerian Dynastic Period 32740

32,355 BBT—After 300 years of slow weakening and decreasing prosperity, one ruler among the Masyashan League attempts to grab absolute power and instate a single monarchical Masyashan Kingdom. The attempted power grab fails, though not without the significant death of many important political figures. The swift coup evolves into a roiling civil war and a succession crisis. The war leads to the downfall of the traditional elite in Ushastadel, and new factions rise in the power vacuum. Shakagama is the site of a bloody massacre as a rising warlord flexes her muscles and crushes opposition, though an elderly cleric calls into Hemangh and summons forth Autochthonous servants of Hemangh to destroy the warlord. This effort is successful, though now the Autochthonous beasts of Hemangh are unleashed upon the island. The cleric herself is killed, though her young student attempts to take the lead.
    The chaos of the fall of the Masyashan League ripples to the east and west; Udakxsha had been growing increasingly economically and politically involved in the Kingdoms of Ushastadel, and the organizational collapse ushers in an economic downturn. Udakxsha loses money and power as it begins to face down a growing Gairian power to its north.

32,330 BBT--The young cleric, Paxtanzaar, exersizes control over the rampaging Autochthonous creatures of Hemangh and shepherds them back into the godly realm. He works to unite the various factions of Ushastadel to do this, bringing together a coalition of cities both old and new to drive away the existential threat. Paxtanzaar is heralded as a hero of the realm, and he leads a unified Kingdom of Ushastadel.

32,300 BBT--The Gairian dynasty in Tazetaka lunges south to try to claim the Relic Gate of Udakxsha. The weakened city fell to the invaders. The city uniquely went through a sweeping reevaluation of cultural identity, led by clerics from Uramuhj. Various regions questioned their loyalty to the old kingdom, while others focused on cultural preservation and the revival of local traditions.

-----------32,115 BBT--Urabdan Status quo change in Zalawazara dynasty of Urabdan.

------------32,030 BBT--Paxtanzaar, hero of Ushastadel, dies. Factions that were once united against the common enemy now vie for influence and dominance. Power struggles and rivalries lead to intermittent conflicts, both open warfare and political maneuvering. The short-lived Kingdom of Ushastadel melts into a political mess of cities and petty kingdoms on the island, with no single player significantly dominant.

-----------31,683 BBT--In an attempt to put down internal dissention in Udakxsha, the Gairian rulers execute the majority of Hemangh clerics in the city's Orders. They massacre the Orders, isolating the city from the others in Hemangh and inviting a divine catastrophe onto the city. The city undergoes divine collapse as Hemangh itself collapses in the city, and the Gate in Tazetaka is forever shut. The social order immediatly crumbles and chaos rules the streets. Famine quickly sets in, followed by rebellion and plague. The rebellion spreads north into Azaherem and the Gairian dynastic rulers are overthrown. The important pilgrimage site of Tazetaka is destroyed, severing the people of the region from their religious needs.

-----------31,819 BBT--The cities of Gozam are fractured by barbarian invasion from the mountains. A foreign Eyasolian-Zarrakayan dynasty makes its seat in the largest city of Gozam, Masashah. The other cities are forced to pay tribute to this new dynasty.

-----------31,163 BBT--The cities of Manitesh are brought under the yoke of the Candramuk dynasty of Aramadiz. The city quells the followers of Manitesh and ousts them.

-31400 - standing armies
-31400 - libraries
-31060 - Great Pyramids

-----------30,900 BBT--The RGC peoples in the southern Gairian plateau number around 80,000. They form small cities, the largest housing around 5000 people.

-----------30,234 BBT--Status quo change for the Candramuk dynasty of Aramadiz.

-30200 - Akkadian Empire

First Egyptian Stepped Pyramid 32260
First standing armies 31420
Earliest libraries 31420
Chariot driving 31060
Indus-Mesopotamian trade 31060
Great pyramids 31060
Egyptian ethical philosophy 31060
Akkadian Empire 30220
End of Old Kingdom in Egypt 29740




30th millennium: magic reaches the south via Sor'haya?

----------------------------
Development of Hamem:
48,800 BBT: travel through Hamem is instantaneous and by grovewalkers only.
47,400 BBT: others can travel through Hamem with a grovewalker.
46,200 - 43,900 BBT: Savatumra era. Hamem becomes a god-plane, a physical space to travel through. Comes with introduction of Tellinese culture.
    -Hamem manifests as a distant memory of pre-Atanosta Yfanald. A dark place of eternal winter, where the stars are the campfires of ancestor spirits
41,500 BBT: Vinaltakhans discover Oreus, and believe it to be the heart of Hamem.
41,000 BBT: Late Savatumran. Grovewalkers guide large groups through the god-plane. Hamem begins to facet. Gates are centers of urbanization.
    -Hamem has, at first, legendary deific regions. Distant from the explored places, the homes of Hamem's facets are wondrous manifestations of budding gods.
39,000 BBT: Nos Mori collapse; birth of Zarrakaya culture, Hamem becomes Hemangh as language evolves. More expansive and real, home of gods and spirits that regularly manifest. Kashithra is created. Gates are easily accessed, though the god-plane of Hemangh grows more dangerous and populated. New gates are not created.
    -The domains of deities grow and pantheons exert more influence on the beliefs of the people. Monsters and spirits roam the frozen wastes, and Hemangh grows in size. More and more mythical and legendary places are believed into being and discovered by explorers in the wastes. Pilgrims travel the paths and pass war parties on patrol of their lands. Hemangh seems a natural extension of the real world.

36,500 - 35,500 BBT: Zarrakaya population collapse. A lapse in Hemangh transit; introduction of localized beliefs. RGC culture begins. Hemangh is a mature god-plane of many faces and names. The physical gate-space continues to exist, though it is corrupted by conflicting local beliefs.
    -Domination of Hemangh's faces. The very nature of Hemangh becomes local, as facetted realms dominate the god-plane. Now, there is no neutral space--you move from the realm of one local facet to the next. Transit through Hemangh becomes reliant on knowledge and expertise in dealing with your own local Hemangh faces AND those along the way to your destination. 
    -Injection of local myth. The Hemangh "renaissance". "Day becomes night, and night becomes day as the sun is shines shadows and the moon throws glimmering light","When winter is summer and summer is cold as death", "Where spirits walk and mortals float", "Where trees grow high as mountains and swamps plunge into depths unknown."

    -"Devolution" into older, more traditional themes (limited access, mysterious or dangerous travel, mythical dangers and wonders)
    -Generally, more mythical and mysterious. A guide is needed to travel, though travel happens much faster--the world of Hemangh is smaller. The perfect transit takes only five days, no matter the destination.

In order for the local warlords to succeed in their conquests, they need to move through Hemangh. In order to move through Hemangh, they need to use spirit-guides. Thus, there is a boom in the demand for spirit guides which brings a rennaisance of devotion in communities. The enhanced "wonder" of Hemangh in itself greatly increases the people's interest in worshipping it and exploring it. Hemangh takes a new level of focus within the whole RGC population.
Those who control the cities at the maturation of the RGC are warlords who heavily rely on spiritual guides.

35,500
