After the Plane Race simifix, several inspired humans were able to open Gates from their formely fey Shardrealm into Asfalon. One of their chosen locations of immigration was the small land of Rhunendor, where they were heavily influenced by several Lineaments. The humans developed magical societies there, and in the background the Lineaments acted on their own agendas. Creation continued to seek a method of creating new Lineaments for Artifex, and in this quest he captured Grace and sought to decode him and understand how he worked. Creation managed to extract from Grace his Lineament essence and turn him mortal. Grace, though he lost his memory, was subconciously armed with his knowledge of the nature of the multiverse and magic. He became Kalma, a human wizard-king. Kalma grew in power as a necromancer and created a state which was revolutionary to those before it in several ways, solving the classic problems of Empire:
    1. Adoption of an undead army
        -Larger than other armies around him
        -Cheaper than other armies around him
            -Having cheap armies means having low taxes, which generally increases the profit of the Empire while also increasing the contentedness of the population. So, at least early on, Kalma's Empire was a happy one.*
        -Requires specialized necromantic leadership
        -requires a re-thinking of ancestral reverence
        -Absolute loyalty? Unless they're a bit more humanized.
    2. Connection of distant lands via Gate
        -Removes problem of distant administration, allowing sprawling empire
        -Allows the development of a vastly more efficient centralized economy than traditional sprawling territorial states
Only weakness that might remain is loss of cohesion over time as the empire ages. Kalma seeks to solve this through the institution of the Imperial Cult, which would bind the common folk of the empire to him as a living god. Then, the main weakness of the empire is the dissatisfaction and corruption of the elite and those close to Kalma.

"Grace",
'Hykhe-nae', "Noble/King Hykhe"
eye-ha-nae
Hykhe-nae -> Fekhanae/a -> Vecna


Emperor:
Kolmat -> "Kalma"

Empire and City
Kol va Sian / Kol va Shahr

Last and First City
Yusian Tumyusian

but with influence from Persian languages:
Yushahr Tumyushahr, Yutumyushahr

The original city, before it became known as the Last and First City, was called "Shada", after the early human word "Shadaqat", which meant "promontory". The city is located on a promontory overlooking a river mouth and bay.
So, in the early times, before it simply became The Empire or The City, Hykhe's Empire was the Shadaean Empire.

Kalma's early reign was marked by violent and severe war against those around him. He commanded a vast army of the undead as a shape-shifted Shadow Dragon, instantiating the Dragon as the royal insignia that would last until the end of the Empire. He conquered the most powerful states of Rhunendor and ruled this young Empire as a mortal for some time. Eventually, after ascending to lichdom, he realized the potential to expand beyond Ilia would require mass teleportation: Gates. He studied ancient Gate magic and opened Gates between Rhunendor and Annuntol, where his armies marched and conquered. The logistical chokepoint of a single Gate caused administrative difficulties which he ingeniously bypassed by creating an early form of the Gate system that would be used for millennia afterward: he placed Gates within every major city with each Gate leading to a central Nexus. This nexus was a newly designed city, created expressely for the purpose of connecting many eventual cities. Thus, the great Last and First City was born, the name coined over time by visitors knowledgable in ancient human mythology. The Gates were huge archway portals in all the major cities. The Gates made the once-separate cities essentially mono-urban. With this development, every major city became Kalma's capitol. No border was too far to be defended, though all were perhaps too close...

Through this system, Kalma conquered kingdom after kingdom. He toppled empires and folded small cities and states into his realm. Not all were forceful, many came willingling into his control. He grew his great City slowly. Frontier kingdoms often adopted Kalmatic culture as they lived in proximity to the Last and First City. The massive hub was attractive culturally, linguistically, etc. Many states wished to become like the city--until, eventually, the most loyal were added to it. During this period of growth, the Last and First city evolved in many ways. Its culture was syncretic, its language a patchwork of tongues from around the world held together by a slowly evolving "common" language. Growing cultural tensions during this time threatened the cohesion of the city. After Kalma conquered an old crumbling empire ala Byzantium, the exotic and attractive culture and some of the governing practices spread throughout the City. The Imperial Cult was established, pushing a new philosophy of unity, self-actualization, life meaning, afterlife, and theology, and the administration was turned into an examination-based meritocracy.

A mature City-Empire emerged from this early crisis. The meritocracy allowed for upward movement and negated the growing corruption of the old aristocracy. It played well into the new philosophy of life and death pushed by the Imperial Cult. Kalma became a god-emperor, a divine Judge and ruler. Personal action and virtuous nature raised ones status in the eyes of the god-emperor, and after death your body would be venerated through undead service to the Empire and City. The more virtuous your life was judged, the higher rank you would be given in death. Kalma's empire, the City, was revered. Low taxes and prosperity offered by the City gave people a generally happy life. They *wanted* to continue serving the Empire, and they often had an idealized vision of how that service would play out. This was the core cohesive nature of the Imperial Cult. It served both to provide hope, upward movement, and soldiers for the Imperial Machine. 
    During the establishment of the meritocracy, a standardized language of government was established. This was different from the common language. Administrators are well honored, and were often considered to serve in high ranks after death.
    -interesting market: embalming salts, fluids, oils, etc. Fresh smelling chemicals and alchemical concoctions to help the dead look alive. Especially high-ranking dead.

As the Empire and City aged, things continued to evolve and change. The city grew enormous, and it became a myth unto itself. Those within the city often held a simple view of the world: there was the City and the Wilderness. Outside the city the location didn't much matter--the city was everywhere, all at once. Further, the City itself had new life. The Imperial Cult and the idea of the Empire in general became synonymous with the City. The City was the Empire and the City was the God. The City was Kalma, and Kalma was the city. Many people believe that the city is simplify endless. Its size and shape are believed to be controlled by the Emperor-God-City, and the City is often personified in speech, etc.

Kalma's Empire is centered around the Last and First City, the great interconnected gate network of the old world's cities. As a single giant metropolis, the LFC has tens of districts that were each separate cities at one point. Kalma would conquer a people then connect their capital city to the LFC, possibly also some smaller cities. His Empire, then, was an Empire of cities. It functioned as a huge city-state, a monopoly on commercial power and cultural weight. It wasn't necessarily a territorial empire, though it did control all the territory around the LFC to provide food for the denizens of the city. It's difficult to understand the geography of the LFC because it is so...weird. The people of the city don't really think about the outskirts. The outskirts are farms, forests, mysterious places. This is a time truly defined by city vs the unkown. It's an urban adventure to the maximum degree. Some older parts of the city might be overgrown and ruined though, so even within the endless cityscape there can be large stretches of wilderness.

The LFC is a functioning nation within itself. It trades to itself, it wars with itself, etc. The Great Gates that connect the districts are huge archways that allow thoroughfares and cannals to pass through them, much like V's gate that brought Kalma back after his exile many millennia later.

The cultural heritage of the city is simialar to "Old Byzantium" and Golden Baghdad. These are the cultures the LFC wishes to emulate, that the aristocrats are experiencing a Rennaisance for / clinging to despite their decline.

The city is so large that its very nature is mythologized. Much like Sigil; "The size and shape of the city isn't fixed, it's controlled by the Lady of Pain"

The Kalmaic Empire stretches over 100 MM, with hundreds of districts within the LFC. Much of the growth has been focused on 23 central districts however. 22,500,000 live in the LFC.

Underground
Sky
Planar-side, astral city
City of glass manufacturing?
Bazaar with a glowing globe to keep it daytime



Premise:
The party works for a mercenary group headed by a powerful wizard / witch. The group works for a range of powerful people at all levels of society. They're pretty mixed up in the politics of the LFC. However, for much of the more junior members, the group's jobs are often small. Sometimes the wizard asks them to fetch spell components or oddities for their menagerie. The witch/wizard merc group is attached to a magical school that the wizard/witch is at the head of. Kind of a two-sided coin, both a merc group and a school.

-----

On the religious evolution leading up to Kalma's reign:
The ancestral kingdoms that rose out of the Red Sun and dabbled in the first real magic systems held a religion that combined Hemanghism and Akshani faiths, altered and boiled in the Red Sun dark age. Generally, A single deity is held, but with dualistic tendencies. Red is a very imporant color in the religion, symbolizing good (magic, power). The sun is also tied to good, while the moon and darkness is tied to evil. The single deity has several aspects / faces, split diametrically into Good and Bad, Benevolent and Malevolent. This deity is often called by somewhat-learned outsiders to be the God of Many Faces. Sacrifice is very important to this deity, which ties into spell component sacrifice.

During the time of the Plane Race, a new religion was rising. A once small sect of the Many Faced God faith, more explicitely polytheistic, preaches beyond ethnic boundaries. This faith propagates throughout the common folk of the Plane Race civilizations, and is generally opposed to the Old Red Gods.

Eventually human faiths come into play--inspired by Confusianism.
