Usvajran culture could be described as thus:

Personal identities are tied to the city and the rulers of the city.
Cities are ruled by living sevakath priest-queens supported by undead sevakath family members
Sevakath bridge the mortal world and the world of the deities, the world of the firmament.
Usvajran deities are tied to natural + societal domains. The deities actively respond to supplications, typically performed by sevakath.

Usvajran cities are small and far between. Population density is low.
In order to enter the afterlife, the blood of an Usvajran must pass through the lips of a sevakath. In a low-density world, it forces a common societal tradition of travel and trade. It is commonplace for trade between villages to also include the passage of body parts of deceased townspeople. These body parts are moved towards the closest sevakath temple for consumption. The most common gripe among villages is the timing of such movements--too late, and autochtonous undead might arise to terrorize the village outskirts!

Population is too small and low-density that there tends to be more sevakath than the population can truly handle. The wealthy, well-armed sevakath are encouraged to war with other cities for prisoners for sacrifice. These "Sacrifice Wars" are an integral part of Usvajran society. They are defining features of the power struggle and inter-city relationships of Usvajra.

Later Thandairian, the pinnacle of Usvajran culture just before the Early Bronze Age collapse, was all this to the extreme. Cities were more oppulent, social, and stratified.

----
The Early Bronze Age Collapse scrambled the political landscape and shook the power structures deeply set within the cultural traditions of Usvajra.
Small elements of various cultures (widespread slavery; competition; ideas of complex social classes, councilliary rule, distributed supplication...) mixed together. The introduction of new ideas diversifies the Later Thandairian societies.
----

Generally, as Later Thandairian diverged into East and West Yayur, Neo-Thandairian, and Velkatan, several core features of the culture were held in common.
Technological advancements - These cultures all mature in the high bronze age. Large cities and states rise and fall, rulers keep records and send letters. Trade is common, widespread, and integral to society. Bronze is a limiting factor on wealth, and much of the region's bronze is forged with tin sourced from near Tellin.
Religious advancements - By this point, pantheons can be large and complex, far more so than before the LBAC. The LBAC showed that all deities were true and powerful. If spurned, they could brutally react.
Population growth - Population saturation is reached pretty quickly, around the time of the maturation of these LTD (Later Thandairian-Descended) cultures. Thus, they mature with features generally consistent with a saturated population. Total LTD population: ~28 million at a density of 30/sq miles. With a population of this size, ~14,000 sevakath can be comfortably supported by natural deaths alone.
Population density - At a density of 30/sq mile, people are much closer together than before. Sevakath are more ubiquitous. Temples are more common, people are closer to their temples. People are closer to their religion, centers of trade, and places of idea exchange. The high bronze age world is one much more interconnected and complex. With people closer to sevakath, the formerly distant rituals are now more visible. The gods are thus more visible, more active, etc. Normal mortal people are more engaged and tied into the structures of the religions. Old structures of body-part transport are generally disolved, replaced with new structures of sacrifice preservation as a higher population allows a more comfortable existence for many sevakath. One defining freature of LTD cultures is the method by which sacrificial materials (bodies, blood, bones, etc) are preserved (eg ceramics, pools + anticoagulants, divine intervention...)

Western Yayurs were ruled by the iron fists of warlord sevakath. The blood of slaves flowed through the streets and down the stones of the massive megalithic temples. Western Yayur aristocracies were complicated and brutal, with significant mobility based on wealth. Western Yayurs had a large merchant class that could gain or lose fortunes from a single ship, adding volatility to the culture. Yonaktunash has a type of wild garlic incredibly high in anticoagulants such that normally consuming significant amounts of the grass is fatal. The garlic is instead used in some medical scenarios and prevelently in Western Yayur sacrifice storage. Temples on Yonaktunash are infamous for massive stone pools of blood mixed with the garlic anticoagulant to prevent clotting, and the blood is mixed with water to prevent drying.
Western Yayurs are generally unified by their hatred of the Shukunenes, and this rivalry manifests in their religion and pantheon. Key foci of Western Yayur religion: sacrifice, war, afterlife
 The Western Yayurs hold the deity Aktunash (Haseduanth) as their chief deity, at the head of a diverse pantheon of LTD gods and those picked up from Hradabar and the northeast Huroman coast of the early bronze age. Aktunash is goddess of death, family and heritage, scholarship, ruler of the afterlife, and a proponent of supplication, ritual, and magic. This is a major change from traditional Later Thandairian, where the idea of magic was vilified to the point that supplication was narrow and restricted to sevakath. Sevakath generally take roles as warriors and rulers, leaving priestly studies to be taken up by mortals. Deific cults are headed by mortal priests, making the rites and rituals of the religion more accessible to the average Yayur. Thus, supplication and ritual are more common throughout Western Yayur culture. The decoupling of the ruling elite and the priestly elite also gives the divine continuance of the Western Yayurs more stability.

Eastern Yayur culture evolved on the multitude of smaller islands off the southwestern coast of Thandairia. Originally ruled by numerous theocratic sevakath oligarchies, the Eastern Yayur islands underwent several governmental shifts and cultural infusions.
Religious keywords: sacrifice, afterlife, hubris
Hybrid distributed religious structure, with sevakath at the center and mortal clergy performing auxilliary roles (or acting as main priests in smaller communities). Original Eastern Yayur kingdoms were generally ruled by oligarchical groups of sevakath religious officials that oversaw various degrees of other religious councils presiding over smaller portions of society. In this way, Eastern Yayur oligarchies were more similar to Dzer systems of Huroma, from which the system was based. The religious heirarchy stops before the Dzer system did; family groups do not have a "religious official" performing frequent rites. Trade is administrated by the central oligarchy in a palacial system, thus the Eastern Yayurs did not have a large, independent merchant class. Eastern Yayur temples are dark and wet, often mostly submerged in reverence to the chief deity of the Eastern Yayur pantheon, an Uygun Autochthon. Sacrifices are killed by drowning, and bodies are often soaked in water for days before being consumed by Eastern Yayur sevakath. Through some divine preservation, other sacrifices are kept whole and chained to the floor of temple tide pools.
Holding closer to traditional Later Thandairian, Eastern Yayurs shun magic and other activities viewed as hubris. The scope of supplications are narrow and reserved for cult practicioners.
After the conquest of Samudhi Bhool, the unified islands were ruled by a chieftain elected by a high religious sevakath council. Under this system, the unified islands blossomed and grew far more powerful. They took a more outward-facing stance, growing trade and their capabilities of war. These elections ended as internal tensions tore the system apart from the inside. The first Shaasak ruler rose and unified the islands through force, instating a hereditary monarchy decoupled from the religious infrastructure. The elections of Samudhi Bhool were not lost, however, and the concept of elected leaders propogated down the heirarchy of Eastern Yayur power. The religious councils were replaced at many levels with elected religious officials, often chosen from within the religious voting body of elders. This system encouraged hightened delegation, organization, and administration. On local scales where the Shaasak overlord did not rule, these small theocratic republics took charge. These administrative bodies were implimented efficiently in practice throughout much of the Shaasakid Empire, as they did not necessarily rely on the presence of sevakath or even the conversion of the local area to the religion of the Eastern Yayurs to function.

Shaasakids are religiously adoptive, encouraging local worship while also introducing Eastern Yayur deities and rituals through their distributed theocratic administrative system. The Shaasakids are less loose with their economic and civil controls. Coming from a palatial economic background, the local economies of trade were radically regulated and emplaced within a palacial system where the elected adminstrative official and their theocratic council controlled much of the wealth and trade. They enforced with economic transformation with a powerful military presence in conquered polities.
