name: healfdene of emelle

race: human
age: 22 yr
sex: male
height: 5'9"
weight: 134 lbs
build: wiry
eyes: blue
skin: fair
hair: pale blonde

natural environment: temperate forest and lowlands
social environment: small village (emelle)
occupation: woodcutter

father: cloud (deceased)
mother: ?? (deceased)
brother: adavald (31)
sister: samitha (19)

personality: bipolar (amiable/irritable)
ambitions: passive
bonds: family, village
ideals: respect should be earned, sociopolitical authority is an artificial construct
alignment: bipolar (ng/cn)

i  work as a woodcutter.  i share a cottage in the woods with my sister samitha,
three years my younger, who hunts for a living.  i only rarely spend time at the
cottage, however;  most nights i sleep outside in the trees, and days frequently
pass before i must return to deposit or pick up supplies. in the mean time i eat
roots, nuts, berries, insects, fish, and eggs. my sister usually manages to keep
the  cottage stocked with dried meats and vegetables from hunting and gardening,
and  we  buy cheese and bread from town.  we own a cart for hauling goods to and
from town, and it has over time made a rough path between there and the cottage.
i make rounds around the village roughly weekly, selling firewood; i also supply
lumber to the village carpenter.

i own one axe,  which i use to fell trees.  i also own a small hand-saw, used to
de-limb  the  trees  and section the trunks into lengths that can be carried.  i
split the trunks into firewood at the cottage,  and this firewood  is  taken  by
cart to the village.  typically,  i fell trees no more than ten miles or so from
the cart-trail.

in the village, i am normally very easygoing and friendly.  i am acquainted with
almost everyone  in  the  village  to  some degree,  due  to my job distributing
firewood.  i  regularly attend religious  and  seasonal festivals,  as  well  as
weddings and funerals. because i get around so widely, i am sometimes used as an
impromptu messenger,  which helps keep  me  in  touch with the goings-on  in the
village.  i  am  particularly fond  of the old carpenter and his wife; they have
always  been very patient with  my  irregular schedule  and  have more than once
invited me to dine with them for minor religious holidays.  i  am always hungry,
due to my minimalist lifestyle, so i of course always accept.

i  am  also  extraordinarily  close  to  my  siblings.  my  mother died  due  to
complications with childbirth when  i  was  three,  and my father caught ill and
died when i was 14.  my brother adavald, then 23,  looked after my sister and me
after that.  our parents had worked as field-hands, and we had assisted with the
work, but were not worth employment after they died.  my father had been captain
of  the  village guard,  a  loose and rarely-assembled militia,  but this did us
little good -- adavald was appointed to replace him at the unpaid position after
his funeral,  at which point he took it into his mind to turn the militia into a
true,  disciplined military unit.  for two years  he worked temporary jobs as  a
farmhand  or doing other unskilled labor;  when the employer was generous enough
to pay some extra for me and samitha we would help out,  but in the mean time we
gleaned what we could from the surrounding forests  --  adavald strictly prohib-
ited begging. we collected sticks and twigs to sell for kindling, ran errands to
fetch water or spread messages, and did whatever else we could to excuse accept-
ing a few coins from those people who took pity on us.  eventually,  the village
carpenter hired me to fell trees. the job had previously fallen to him, and when
he  got too old  to  his son,  but his son had recently departed for the city to
become  a trader.  by this time,  my sister and i had begun to develop a camp in
the woods where  we  could reconvene  at the end of each day.  she was still too
small to cut wood,  but she learned to set snares and began catching rabbits and
squirrels to sell in addition to kindling.

this whole time,  adavald worked tirelessly to advance the militia,  with little
success. we would visit him daily while making our rounds of the village, and he
would supply  us  with food from what little  he earned. he gathered a small but
ever-growing collection  of  villagers willing to seriously invest in the guard,
gathering them on a weekly basis to train, coordinate methods to quickly respond
to  crises,  aquire proper equipment,  and so forth.  after two years of gradual
progress, the village was attacked a rampant troll. after only the loss of a few
livestock and some property damage, however, adavald and his guard assembled and
managed to kill the creature, bringing him great renown in the village. within a
year  he  was married and in possession of a small farmstead on the outskirts of
town; his militia grew quickly to a proper town guard. he invited samitha and me
to live with him there,  but we had become accustomed to our cabin in the woods,
and it lay in a location conducive to our jobs.

i  have always very much loved the forest,  and that feeling was only reinforced
by my time living there.  away from society, i am a different person:  i am more
nonverbal,  and  in extreme cases  i  lose my hold over language.  except around
people who  i  know very well,  i am extremely irritable and easily put on edge,
though  i  rarely actually lose my temper.  i am more prone to violence and less
capable of reasoning. my senses are heightened, in particular smell and hearing.
i  can be completely impulsive or cautious and patient.  in general,  i  am more
likely  to  respond  to  immediate stimuli and pursue extremely short-term goals
with little consideration for the future or past.

i discovered while young that i had some magical influence over nature;  i could
make young berries ripen,  for instance,  and had  an uncanny ability to predict
the weather. occasionally, when deeply immersed in the woods, i even transformed
into a beast such as a fawn or catfish. as i grew older i learned how to control
my abilities better,  but i still have not fully mastered them; in particular, i
can only call  on  many of my magical abilities when in the right state of mind,
surrounded  by  my  forest.  my  ability to take animal form is contingent on my
emotional involvement, to the degree that i sometimes shapeshift involuntarily.

my family became aware of my abilities almost as soon as i did,  and it was they
who informed  me that not everyone is capable of these things.  my magical abil-
ities, including my propensity to take animal form, are also known to my friends
and miscillaneous villagers;  it  is no secret,  but there has been no reason to
make it widely known.  because my abilities only manifest when i am more or less
alone, most people know of them only by my testimony or that of my siblings.

while i do not normally view animals like i do people,  i am much better able to
distinguish and remember individual animals and plants than most people,  and  i
can empathize with them more easily. i sometimes form close emotional bonds with
wild creatures or trees,  but for the most part i treat them as strangers or ac-
quaintances.  my ability to recognize the inhabitants of  a  piece of the forest
that i am familiar with makes it easy for me to navigate the woods.

like the rest of my family, i have light blonde hair and bright blue eyes.  i am
a bit short and thin, due to my eating habits, but i am surprisingly strong, due
to many years cutting wood. my lifestyle has, however, taken a toll on my immune
system, and i take ill somewhat more than normal. my senses, even outside of the
woods, are significantly better than average.

class: druid 3

proficiency bonus: +2

str: 12 (+1)
dex: 12 (+1)
con: 09 (-1)
int: 11 ( 0)
wis: 15 (+2)
cha: 12 (+1)

passive perception: 14

saving throws: int (+2), wis (+4)

skills: animal handling (wis +4), nature (int +2), perception (wis +4), survival (wis +4)

attack bonus: [1+1d8]+1
defence bonus: [1+1d8]+1

armours: light and medium, shields
weapons: simple melee, dart, sling
tools: herbalism kit

spell save dc: 12
spell attack modifier: +4
spell multiplicity: 5

spells 0 (inft):
	
	druidcraft: 1 action, 30 ft, (VS), instant
		predict the weather
		make a plant bloom
		puff of wind, faint odor, etc.
		light or extinguish small flame
	
	shillelagh: 1 bonus action, 60 ft, (VS), 1 min
		weapon becomes d8
		use caster level as strength for attack and damage
		weapon becomes magical
		spell ends if you let go
	
	thorn whip: 1 action, 30 ft, (VS), instant
		1d6 piercing `melee' attack
		if creature large or smaller, pull 10 ft toward self

spells 1 (4 /d):
	
	create water: 1 action, 30 ft, (VS), instant
		10 gallons fall as rain in a 30 ft cube
	
	detect magic: 1 action, -, (VS), concentration up to 10 min
		sense presence of magic within 30 ft
		learn the school of magic
		blocked by thick walls, 1" metal, thin sheet lead
	
	detect poison and disease: 1 action, -, (VS), concentration up to 10 min
		sense presence of poison, poisonous creatures, and diseases within 30 ft
		learn the type of poison, poisonous creature, or disease
		blocked by thick walls, 1" metal, thin sheet lead
	
	entangle: 1 action, 90 ft, (VS), concentration up to 1 min
		plants grow and turn 20 ft square into difficult terrain
		plants try to restrain people (strength saving throw)
	
	fog cloud: 1 action, 120 ft, (VS), concentration up to 1 hr
		20 ft radius fog cloud
	
	goodberry: 1 action, touch, (VSM: up to 10 berries), instant
		eating a berry restores 1 hit point
		eating a berry provides enough nourishment for one day
		effect fades after 24 hr
	
	longstrider: 1 action, touch, (VS), 1 hr
		speed +10 ft
	
	purify food and drink: 1 action, 10 ft, (VS), instant
		all nonmagical foot in 5 ft radius is rid of poison and disease
	
	speak with animals: 1 action, self, (VS), 10 min
		can verbally communicate with beasts

spells 2 (2 /d):

	beast sense: 1 action, touch, (S), concentration up to 1 hr
		gain read permissions to a beast's senses
	
	darkvision: 1 action, touch, (VS), 8 hr
		gain darkvision
	
	find traps: 1 action, 120 ft, (VS), instant
		sense the presence of any traps in range and line of sight
		can't sense exactly where they are
		can sense approximately what they do
	
	gust of wind: 1 action, 60 ft line, (VS), concentration up to 1 min
		strong wind 60 ft long 10 ft wide emanates from desired direction
		targets are pushed 15 ft back in the line (strength saving throw)
		moving up the line costs double movement points
		extinguish fires, shoo fog, etc
	
	lesser restoration: 1 action, touch, (VS), instant
		cure one disease of affliction: blinded, deafened, paralyzed, poisoned
	
	locate animals or plants: 1 action, -, (VS), instant
		know direction and distance of nearest instance of named plant or animal
	
	moonbeam: 1 action, 120 ft, (VS), concentration up to 1 min
		5 ft radius cylinder of moonlight, moveable 60 ft once per turn
		unnatural creatures take 2d10 radiant damage (half on constitution save)
		shapechangers make saving throw with disadvantage and revert on failure
	
	pass without trace: 1 action, self, (VS), concentration up to 1 hr
		target any desired creatures in 30 ft
		+10 to dex (stealth) checks against detection
		leave no tracks, cannot be tracked except magically
	
	protection from poison: 1 action, touch, (VS), 1 hr
		cure 1 random poison
		can choose which one to cure, if you know what it is
		target has advantage on saving throws against poison
		target has resistance to poison damage
	
	spike growth: 1 action, 150 ft, (VS), concentration up to 10 min
		20 ft radius grows thorns
		thorns are difficult terrain
		thorns cause 2d4 piercing damage per 5 ft of travel
		if not present at time of casting, see thorns only on wisdom (perception) check against spell dc
	
wild shape:
	
	i may transform into a small, medium, or large beast, with a challenge rating of 1 or less, as a bonus action.
	i must be intimately familiar with the animal and in its native habitat.
	i assume the beast's statistics but retain my intelligence, wisdom, and charisma.
	i cannot cast spells, speak, or use my hands, unless the beast is able to do so.
	any gear that i'm carrying is discarded unless i am intimately familiar with it, in which case it is absorbed.
	once transformed, i must fall asleep or enter society before converting back.
	
	catfish (medium) joy
	bear    (large)  sadness
	boar    (medium) anger
	viper   (medium) fear
